Add new security considerations section for SPIFFE IDs (#215)
spiffe/spiffe: standards/SPIFFE-ID.md

URIs, as defined by [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986), do not have a maximal length. As an interoperability consideration, SPIFFE implementations MUST support SPIFFE URIs up to 2048 bytes in length and SHOULD NOT generate URIs of length greater than 2048 bytes. [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986) permits only ASCII characters, thus the recommended maximum length of a SPIFFE ID is 2048 bytes.

> All URI components contribute to the URI length, including the "spiffe" scheme, "://" separator, trust domain name, and path component. Note that [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986) defines a maximum length of 255 characters for the "host" component of a URI; therefore a maximum length of a trust domain name is 255 bytes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All URI components contribute to the URI length, including the "spiffe" scheme, "://" separator, trust domain name, and path component. Note that [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986) defines a maximum length of 255 characters for the "host" component of a URI; therefore a maximum length of a trust domain name is 255 characters.
```

Reviewer 2: Why is the substitution of "bytes" for "characters" important?

What are we asking implementors to do differently with characters than with bytes?

If I were to implement this spec and encountered "bytes" here, I would know to process the input string byte-by-byte. But if the spec says "characters", then that suggests to me that I need to know more about the definition of "character". Are they fixed-width? Do I need to use some particular charset?

### 2.4. SPIFFE ID Parsing

SPIFFE IDs follow the URI specification as defined by [RFC 3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986). The scheme and trust domain name of the SPIFFE ID are case-insensitive. The path is case-sensitive.

### 2.5. SPIFFE ID Equivalency

> Two SPIFFE IDs are equivalent if and only if they match on a byte-for-byte basis. Note that since SPIFFE IDs allow only ASCII characters without percent-encoding, and SPIFFE also forbids capital letters in the `host` part of the authority (which is traditionally case-insensitive), comparisons of legal SPIFFE IDs are disambiguated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two SPIFFE IDs are equivalent if and only if they match on a character-for-character basis. Note that since SPIFFE IDs forbid percent-encoded characters, and forbid capital letters in the `host` part of the authority (which is traditionally case-insensitive), comparisons of legal SPIFFE IDs are disambiguated.
```

> It is important to try to minimize the amount of processing done on SPIFFE IDs received from untrusted sources prior to comparing them, as it is possible for some URI parsers to normalize an illegal SPIFFE ID into a legal one. Please see Security Considerations [section 4.2](#42-id-equivalency) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As it is possible for some URI parsers to normalize an illegal SPIFFE ID into a legal one, it is important to try to minimize the amount of processing done on SPIFFE IDs received from untrusted sources prior to comparing them. Please see Security Considerations [section 4.2](#42-id-equivalency) for more information.
```

Now imagine that a request for the customer’s data is received by the storage service in trust domain A, except the caller presented an SVID from trust domain B. Even though the presented SVID may have the necessary assertion indicating that the shared customer was authenticated and authorized the request, it is a bad idea to blindly assume that trust domain B has indeed authenticated your customer. If trust domain B is compromised, or if it has a malicious internal actor, it could claim to have authenticated any user it wishes, thus creating the very circumstance that the measure was designed to mitigate in the first place.

### 4.2. ID Equivalency

> The comparison of SPIFFE IDs is a security critical operation. In allowing for internationalization, as well as compatibility with the DNS system, the URI standard which SPIFFE IDs rely upon has made a handful of decisions which complicate the equivalency process. Specifically, case-insensitivity, ambiguous percent-encoding rules and support for UTF-8, and the implementation of many conditionally-special characters can make the topic a confusing one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The comparison of SPIFFE IDs is a security critical operation. In allowing for internationalization, as well as compatibility with the DNS system, the URI standard which SPIFFE IDs rely upon has made a handful of decisions which complicate the equivalency process. Specifically, case-insensitivity, ambiguous percent-encoding rules and support for UTF-8, and the implementation of many conditionally-special characters can make interpretation and implementation of the rules challenging.
```

> This specification has specifically forbidden the use of characters and encoding schemes that complicate comparison (please see sections [2.1](#21-trust-domain) and [2.2](#22-path) for more information). Thus, any legal SPIFFE ID can be considered safe. It will not be misinterpreted or transformed by traditional URI libraries, and it can be safely compared with other legal IDs on a byte-for-byte basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification has specifically forbidden the use of characters and encoding schemes that complicate comparison (please see sections [2.1](#21-trust-domain) and [2.2](#22-path) for more information). Thus, any legal SPIFFE ID can be considered safe. It will not be misinterpreted or transformed by traditional URI libraries, and it can be safely compared with other legal IDs on a character-for-character basis.
```

Reviewer 2: "Thus, any legal SPIFFE ID can be considered safe. It will not be misinterpreted or transformed by traditional URI libraries, and it can be safely compared with other legal IDs on a byte-for-byte basis."

This is the intention, or aspiration of the design. But as stated, I read this as a fact. Are we actually able to make this claim? Do we know that we haven't made a mistake somewhere or that some future parser may deviate from today's norms?

> It is still possible for a legal URI (but illegal SPIFFE ID) to be legally processed according to URI normalization rules _into_ a legal SPIFFE ID. Thus, under certain circumstances, it is possible for an illegal SPIFFE ID to be passed through a URI parser and produce a legal SPIFFE ID. These two SPIFFE IDs **will not match** on a byte-for-byte basis, however there exists room for confusion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is still possible for a legal URI (but illegal SPIFFE ID) to be legally processed according to URI normalization rules _into_ a legal SPIFFE ID. Thus, under certain circumstances, it is possible for an illegal SPIFFE ID to be passed through a URI parser and produce a legal SPIFFE ID. These two SPIFFE IDs **will not match** on a character-for-character basis, however there exists room for confusion.
```

> It is still possible for a legal URI (but illegal SPIFFE ID) to be legally processed according to URI normalization rules _into_ a legal SPIFFE ID. Thus, under certain circumstances, it is possible for an illegal SPIFFE ID to be passed through a URI parser and produce a legal SPIFFE ID. These two SPIFFE IDs **will not match** on a byte-for-byte basis, however there exists room for confusion.

Reviewer 2: "These two SPIFFE IDs **will not match** on a byte-for-byte basis, however there exists room for confusion."

Is it the IDs or the URLs which will not match byte-for-byte/character-for-character?

Consider rephrasing to something like: The pre- and post-processed SPIFFE IDs/URIs will not match on a ... basis.

"however, there exists room for confusion"

I don't understand this last phrase. Can it be dropped?

> This is an important detail to keep in mind, particularly when accepting untrusted input that is not signed over by a trust domain authority (e.g. user input from a web app). Untrusted input should always be validated against the SPIFFE ID ruleset prior to accepting and parsing with a traditional URI parser. Please see [Appendix A](#5-appendix-a) for a brief example.

Reviewer 2: "This is an important detail to keep in mind"

What is the subject of the sentence? (What does "this" refer to?)

## 5. Appendix A. Lightweight SPIFFE ID validation
SPIFFE IDs have a strict character set that is designed to be as consistent and as easy to validate as possible. Here is a logic example demonstrating a simple SPIFFE ID validation mechanism:

> 1. Total number of characters is less than 2048

Reviewer: Since less than 2048 is only a _SHOULD_ in the standard, I don't think this can be part of the validation algorithm

1. Starts with "spiffe://"
1. Strip prefix "spiffe://"
1. The (new) first character must not be a `/`
1. From the beginning, strip one character at a time:
    1. Ensure it is either a lowercase alpha-numeric, a `.`, a `-`, or a `/`

>     1. When `/` is detected, stop

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. If the character is `/`, stop
```

    1. The number of stripped characters should not exceed 255, not including `/`
1. What remains is the path - scan it for the following conditions in sequential order:
    1. The string does not start or end with `/`
    1. Includes only uppercase or lowercase alpha-numeric characters, `.`s, `-`s, `_`s, and `/`s

>     1. The character sequences `//`, `/./`, and `/../` do not appear anywhere in the string

Reviewer: I think this would allow something like `spiffe://mydomain/spike/..`  --- that is to say, it doesn't eliminate relative path segments as the final segment.

> If the above checks are successful, the SPIFFE ID is valid.

Author: I think @spikecurtis's python script can be linked to from here. Maybe we can add it to this PR and check it into a new `/standards/examples` directory?

Author: Alternatively, we could link to it directly from section 4.2 and omit this appendix item

Reviewer 2: I could go either way on whether to include the above appendix text.

Pointing to example parsers sounds like a good idea.

Reviewer 3: > Maybe we can add it to this PR and check it into a new /standards/examples directory?

Makes sense. 

I was also thinking, maybe it'd be useful to have a `validate()` function in `go-spiffe` — like a static function that takes a String and return true/false based on whether the ID is standards-conformant. It can even have a "strict" flag that treats "SHOULD"s as "MUST" (hence ensuring the length does not exceed 2048 chars—which is, normally, a recommendation, not a requirement)
